So lets actually make this one
step more interesting, and
we'll see how you like this.
Right now we're sending it
as one really big response.
We can actually make
this more interesting and
we can do what's called
a streaming response.
So let's actually open back up our
index.html here or sorry, index.js.
We're gonna change this just a tiny bit.
So change render to string
to render to node stream.
And what this is going to do is,
node has a thing called a stream.
You don't really need to care too much
about it unless you're a node coder.
But it's kind of like
a continuous data source, right?
So it's something that's going
to have multiple responses.
So what this is gonna to do is
it's going to render your react
application out in pieces, right?
So it's gonna do this piece, then this
piece, then this piece in this piece.
And what's cool about doing it this way,
is that you can send your users
incremental responses, they can
start rendering things immediately.
So let's take a look at
what that would look like.
The first thing you wanna do here is
we already have the first piece pre
rendered because it's coming
from our index.html, right?
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna say res.write parts 0.
Now what's really cool about doing
it this way, is immediately the user
is going to get their CSS and
everything else in the head tag.
So we're gonna start
downloading stuff immediately.
So they're gonna get CSS probably
before they get your JavaScript app.
Which means that they're not gonna
have any sort of like flash or
anything like that.
It kind of like parallelizes
some of your workload.
So you write this immediately.
This starts happening.
This can be, intensive for
server side render something.
And then we're gonna say
here const stream equals,
render to node stream.
Reactmarkup, and now we have a stream and
what I can do is I can say, stream.pipe
To some basic connecting one
stream into my response.
And then I have to tell it I'm
not done yet, so end false.
So now this stream is hooked
up to my response and so
it's streaming my response to the user.
And then once this is done,
once this stream has finished,
like once my react app is totally
fully rendered, I can say stream.
.on end so that end event to
just give it a call back to say.
All right one set done
write the status of,
status context static
sorry static context.
Or 200 just what we were doing before so
I guess they could have moved
this just literally that up here.
rez.write parts one write so we have
to write the last part of the HTML now.
And then res.end.
And we can delete all
this stuff down here.
So now that we've just
made that much better for
our users that they're gonna get pieces
of the response as fast as possible.
So let's make sure that that works.
We're gonna stop and
start our server again.
This thing on port 3000.
You won't notice any difference,
Because this is all happening so quickly.
But you can be assured that
they're getting multiple pieces
being streamed to them.
Which is pretty cool.
That is server side rendering.
That's basically all of it in a nutshell.
So just as a kind of a way of suggestion.
When I worked at reddit, we didn't have
any node servers that I could write to.
So I couldn't do server side rendering.
But I thought Netflix had a really and
LinkedIn for
that matter had really
interesting ways of solving this.
They had a node server that made all of
the requests to the backends for the user.
And then they use all of those responses
from the back ends as a mid tier service
to do server side rendering and
serve that to the user.
So they basically stood up a node server
In front of all their back end services.
And then they did server side rendering
with that kind of mid-tier service.
So if that works for you, and that's
something you wanna do at your company,
that works really well for
Netflix and LinkedIn.